\chapter*{Abstract}
% OPTIONAL SOLUTION: Use these settings if you are writing a monograph and have
% only one abstract. Do not use them if you have an abstract at the beginning of
% each chapter/paper.

\abstractintoc{} % Add abstract to Table of Contents
\abstractnum % Format abstract like a chapter

% \begin{abstract}

This thesis develops the \rrtfunnel{} algorithm, which is a provably robust
feedback motion planner for nonlinear dynamical systems in the face of bounded
uncertainties. This is done through the mathematical theory of convex
optimization in order to search for Lyapunov functions which verify the regions
of stability for the smooth nonlinear system at hand. These regions of stability
are then employed as motion primitives for a global \ac{RRT} motion planning
algorithm.

More specifically, \ac{SOS} programming theory is used to verify the regions of
the configuration space surrounding a base set of trajectories that are
guaranteed to give safe traversal of the planning environment.

The verified trajectories are then employed as local motion primitives, each
with its own, locally valid \ac{LQR} controller, which are then composed into a
tree of controllers by the \ac{RRT} motion planner. With each controller having
a verified region of the state space, these regions of safe traversal are
referred to as 'funnels', and are combined together, giving a certificate of
safe traversal.

The safe traversal guarantees of the algorithm are tested by running a first
order unicycle model of an airplane through a simulated forest in order to
verify that the robustness guarantees hold, even in the presence of positional
noise and obstacles. This in turn is shown not to hold for an \ac{RRT} algorithm
which does not reason about disturbances.

% \end{abstract}
